# Get LEHD Origin-Destination Employment Statistics (LODES) data Returned data are from LODES Version 8, which is enumerated in 2020-vintage geometries.

Get LEHD Origin-Destination Employment Statistics (LODES) data Returned
data are from LODES Version 8, which is enumerated in 2020-vintage
geometries.

## Usage

``` r
get_lodes(
  lodes_type,
  jobs_type = "all",
  states,
  years,
  geography = "tract",
  state_part = "main"
)
```

## Arguments

- lodes_type:

  One of c("rac", "wac", "od"). "rac" = Residence Area Characteristics,
  where jobs are associated with employees' residences. "wac" =
  Workplace Area Characteristics, where jobs are associated with
  employees' workplaces. "od" = Origin-Destination data, where jobs are
  associated with both workers' residences and their workplaces.

- jobs_type:

  One of c("all", "primary"). Default is "all", which includes multiple
  jobs for workers with multiple jobs. "primary" includes only the
  highest-paying job per worker.

- states:

  A vector of state abbreviations.

- years:

  A vector of years.

- geography:

  One of c("block", "block group", "tract", "county", "state"). Default
  is "tract".

- state_part:

  One of c("main", "aux"). Default is "main", which includes only
  workers who reside inside the state where they work. "aux" returns
  only workers who work in the specified state but live outside of that
  state.

## Value

A tibble with one record per geography per year per job type. Attributes
include total jobs and jobs by worker earnings, industry, and
demographics; the origin-destination results have more limited
demographics compared to the "wac" and "rac" results.

- year:

  the year for which LODES data is pulled from

- state:

  A two-digit state identifier.

- GEOID:

  11 digit identifier denoted as either h_GEOID representing the
  employees' residence census block code or w_GEOID representing the
  employees' workplace census block code

- job_type:

  one of either 'all' jobs or only 'federal' jobs

- total_jobs:

  total number of jobs in a given tract

- jobs_workers_age:

  number of employees by given age range

- jobs_earnings:

  number of employees by given monthly earnings range

- jobs_industry:

  number of employees by given industry

- jobs_workers_race:

  number of employees by given race, inclusive of hispanic or latino;
  only available in 'wac' and 'rac' datasets

- jobs_workers_ethnicity:

  number of employess by hispanic or latino status, regardless of race;
  only available in 'wac' and 'rac' datasets

- jobs_workers_educational_attainment:

  number of employees by highest level of education attained; only
  available in 'wac' and 'rac' datasets

- jobs_workers_sex:

  number of employees by sex; only available in 'wac' and 'rac' datasets

- jobs_firm_age:

  number of employees by the age of employing firm; only available in
  'wac' datasets

- jobs_firm_size:

  number of employees for a given range in employer size; only available
  in 'wac' datasets

## Details

The Longitudinal Employer-Household Dynamics (LEHD) data at the U.S.
Census Bureau is a quarterly database of linked employer-employee data
covering over 95% of employment in the United States. The LEHD data are
generated by merging previously collected survey and administrative data
on jobs, businesses, and workers.

LEHD Origin-Destination Employment Statistics (LODES)is a partially
synthetic dataset that describes geographic patterns of jobs by their
employment locations and residential locations as well as the
connections between the two locations. The microdata link employee and
employer data by combining administrative state unemployment insurance
wage records with other administrative and survey data. The source data
are aggregated and adjusted to protect confidentiality.

LODES data includes three datasets: Residence Area Characteristics
(RAC): This file lists the total number of jobs by the census block
where the employee lives.

Workplace Area Characteristics (WAC): This file lists the total number
of jobs by the census block where the employee works.

Origin-Destination (OD): This file lists job totals by both the census
block where the employee lives and the census block where the employee
works

While similar to County Business Patterns (CBP) data in it's coverage of
employment statistics, LODES differs mainly due to its more granular
geographies (tract vs. county) and focus on framing the statistics at
the individual/job level found in LODES data.
